README.md, before:

<div align="center"><img width="350" height="350" img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NixOS/nixos-artwork/e7e665687ff9d80550e26948405511bc70b5c6de/logo/nixos.svg"></div>
<h1 align="center">NixOS & Hyprland Configuration</h1>

<div align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Hyprland&message=Unstable&style=flat&logo=hyprland&colorA=24273A&colorB=8AADF4&logoColor=CAD3F5"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NixOS-Unstable-informational.svg?style=flat&logo=nixos&logoColor=CAD3F5&colorA=24273A&colorB=8AADF4">
</div>


## 📖 About

This repository contains my NixOS Linux configuration with the Hyprland window manager. 

I use Nixos with Flakes & Home Manager. (Hm as a module, not standalone)

It also includes my config for all my programs, as I use Nix to manage all my config files via home manager.

This includes my Emacs, Firefox, Zsh, and foot terminal configs, as well as configs for programs adjacent to Hyprland such as Waybar, Rofi, dunst, etc. All wrapped up neatly in one NixOS config!

## 🌟 Showcase

TODO: Add screenshots
TODO: Add gif eventually

![Screenshot 1](home/Pictures/Screenshots/screenshot-1.png)
![Screenshot 2](home/Pictures/Screenshots/screenshot-2.png)

## 🔧 Components

| Component        | Version/Name                     |
|------------------|----------------------------------|
| Distro           | NixOS                            |
| Shell            | Zsh                              |
| Display Server   | Wayland                          |
| WM (Compositor)  | Hyprland                         |
| Bar              | Waybar                           |
| Notification     | Dunst                            |
| Launcher         | Rofi-Wayland                     |
| Editor           | Emacs                            |
| Terminal         | Kitty                            |
| Fetch Utility    | Neofetch                         |
| Theming          | Base16                           |
| Icons            | TBD                              |
| Font             | JetBrains Mono + Nerd Font Patch |
| File Browser     | TBD                              |
| Player           | MPD/MPC                          |
| Internet Browser | Firefox                          |
| Idle             | Swayidle                         |
| Lock             | Swaylock                         |
| Wallpaper        | Wpaperd                          |
| Graphical Boot   | None (No Plymouth)               |
| Display Manager  | Greetd + Tuigreet                |
| Night Gamma      | Gammastep - To install           |

This is a list of all the noteworthy programs. There are many more utilites and programs installed that aren't listed. Check the home.nix and configuration.nix pkgs to see them all.

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 **Reproducible**: Built on NixOS, this configuration can be effortlessly reproduced on other machines, ensuring a consistent setup.

- 🖌️ **Consistent Colors**: Nearly every component has been styled with base16 colors so I can change my base16 theme and all programs are themed in a cohesive way.

- ✅ **Complete**: This system is meant to be just as usable as a DE distro, but much more custom built.

- 🪶 **Lightweight**: Using only a window manager and lightweight utilities keeps memory usage low, the system unbloated, and makes it feel snappy. <1GB ram use with just emacs and kitty open.

- 🎨 **Customizable**: By changing the base16 theme most programs will update to use that colorscheme. Config wise all programs are and can be configured via home manager in one place. 

## 🚀 Installation

1. Download and Install NixOS from the [official site](https://nixos.org/download).
2. Clone the repo, change your system hostname in flake.nix and configuration.nix
3. # Run 'nixos-rebuild --flake .#your-hostname'

## Structure 

- `flake.nix`: Entrypoint for hosts and home configurations. 
- `hosts`: NixOS Configurations, accessible via `nixos-rebuild --flake`.
  - `common`: Shared configurations imported into the machine specific configs.
    - `global`: Configurations that are globally applied to all my machines.
    - `optional`: Opt-in configurations my machines can use.
  - `angkor`: Personal Laptop - Asus ZenBook UX430U | Hyprland
  - `skadi`: TBD - Desktop PC - xx RAM, cpu, gpu | KDE?
  - `bastet`: TBD - Server
- `home`: My Home-manager configurations
  - `user`: The user the home manager is customizing, Ex. "carson"
	- `features`: "Features" (programs, configs) each hm configuration can import.
	- `global`: Configurations all home manager configs for that user will get
	- `"hostname".nix`: The home manager config for user@hostname. Ex. carson@angkor
	
- `custom`: Custom nix modules and nix files that modify or create packages. Could be shared or upstreamed, not personal configurations.
  - `modules`: Actual modules (with options) I haven't upstreamed yet.
  - `overlay`: Patches and version overrides for some packages.
  - `pkgs`: My custom packages. 



## ⌨️ Keybindings

I try to use Emacs keys as much as possible since it's my favorite software :)

### Main
TODO: Fill in my keybinds

| Key Combination      | Action                                            |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| ALT + R              | Resize windows mode                               |
| ALT + M              | Move windows mode                                 |
| SUPER + N, P         | Cycle window focus                                |
| SUPER + 1..0         | Change workspace                                  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + 1..0 | Move window to workspace                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + Q    | Kill active window                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + F    | Toggle floating window                            |
| SUPER + CTRL + F     | Toggle full-screen                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + O    | Toggle split                                      |
| SUPER + SHIFT + M    | Exit from hyprland                                |
| SUPER + T            | Launch wezTerm                                    |
| SUPER + D            | Launch rofi -drun                                 |
| SUPER + B            | Launch qutebrowser                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + B    | Launch brave                                      |
| SUPER + F            | Launch thunar                                     |
| SUPER + ESCAPE       | Launch wlogout                                    |
| SUPER + SHIFT + L    | Swaylock                                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + S    | Take screenshot                                   |
| SUPER + E            | Launch swappy to edit last taken screenshot       |
| SUPER + R            | Record screen area (MP4)                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + R    | Record screen area (GIF)                          |
| SUPER + C            | Color picker                                      |
| SUPER + V            | Launch clipboard menu (rofi -dmenu)               |
| SUPER + X            | Launch clipboard deletion item menu (rofi -dmenu) |
| SUPER + SHIFT + X    | Clear clipboard                                   |
| SUPER + U            | Launch bookmark menu (rofi -dmenu)                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + U    | Add text from clipboard to bookmark               |
| SUPER + CTRL + U     | Launch bookmark deletion item menu (rofi -dmenu)  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + A    | Toggle airplane mode                              |
| SUPER + SHIFT + N    | Toggle notifications                              |
| SUPER + SHIFT + Y    | Toggle bluetooth                                  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + W    | Toggle wifi                                       |
| SUPER + P            | Toggle play-pause player                          |
| SUPER + ]            | Player next track                                 |
| SUPER + [            | Player previous track                             |

All other keybindings are in `/home/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` in the bind section. 
All system zsh scripts are located in the TBD directory.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the GPL3 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. 

# More

## Future Ideas

### Interesting

Things to look at.
- https://grahamc.com/blog/erase-your-darlings/

nix-on-droid
Clipboard-jh
avizo (macos like sound/brightness popup)


### For Visitors

These configurations are obviously meant for my personal use.

However, I try to structure it well and document options and my decisions extensively via comments (mainly for my own sake, so it's easily maintainable and I won't have to wonder why I did something in a particular way some time in the future.).

So, this project might be a useful resource if you're working on your own config, so feel free to look through it, copy whatever you want, steal whatever, anything that helps!

If you're just starting with NixOS, I'd suggest you look at <https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-starter-configs>.

### References

I used elements and inspiration from these resources. 

- https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-starter-configs
- https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-config/tree/main
- https://github.com/XNM1/linux-nixos-hyprland-config-dotfiles

Commit message:

Removed emacs, neovim/vide instead, init.lua work

README.md, after:

<div align="center"><img width="350" height="350" img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NixOS/nixos-artwork/e7e665687ff9d80550e26948405511bc70b5c6de/logo/nixos.svg"></div>
<h1 align="center">NixOS & Hyprland Configuration</h1>

<div align="center">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Hyprland&message=Unstable&style=flat&logo=hyprland&colorA=24273A&colorB=8AADF4&logoColor=CAD3F5"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NixOS-Unstable-informational.svg?style=flat&logo=nixos&logoColor=CAD3F5&colorA=24273A&colorB=8AADF4">
</div>


## 📖 About

This repository contains my NixOS Linux configuration with the Hyprland window manager. 

I use Nixos with Flakes & Home Manager. (Hm as a module, not standalone)

It also includes my config for all my programs, as I use Nix to manage all my config files via home manager.

This includes my Neovim, Firefox, Zsh, and foot terminal configs, as well as configs for programs adjacent to Hyprland such as Waybar, Rofi, dunst, etc. All wrapped up neatly in one NixOS config!

## 🌟 Showcase

TODO: Add screenshots
TODO: Add gif eventually

![Screenshot 1](home/Pictures/Screenshots/screenshot-1.png)
![Screenshot 2](home/Pictures/Screenshots/screenshot-2.png)

## 🔧 Components

| Component        | Version/Name                     |
|------------------|----------------------------------|
| Distro           | NixOS                            |
| Shell            | Zsh                              |
| Display Server   | Wayland                          |
| WM (Compositor)  | Hyprland                         |
| Bar              | Waybar                           |
| Notification     | Dunst                            |
| Launcher         | Rofi-Wayland                     |
| Editor           | Neovim                           |
| Terminal         | Kitty                            |
| Fetch Utility    | Neofetch                         |
| Theming          | Base16                           |
| Icons            | TBD                              |
| Font             | JetBrains Mono + Nerd Font Patch |
| File Browser     | TBD                              |
| Player           | MPD/MPC                          |
| Internet Browser | Firefox                          |
| Idle             | Swayidle                         |
| Lock             | Swaylock                         |
| Wallpaper        | Wpaperd                          |
| Graphical Boot   | None (No Plymouth)               |
| Display Manager  | Greetd + Tuigreet                |
| Night Gamma      | Gammastep - To install           |

This is a list of all the noteworthy programs. There are many more utilites and programs installed that aren't listed. Check the home.nix and configuration.nix pkgs to see them all.

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 **Reproducible**: Built on NixOS, this configuration can be effortlessly reproduced on other machines, ensuring a consistent setup.

- 🖌️ **Consistent Colors**: Nearly every component has been styled with base16 colors so I can change my base16 theme and all programs are themed in a cohesive way.

- ✅ **Complete**: This system is meant to be just as usable as a DE distro, but much more custom built.

- 🪶 **Lightweight**: Using only a window manager and lightweight utilities keeps memory usage low, the system unbloated, and makes it feel snappy. <1GB ram use with just neovim and kitty open.

- 🎨 **Customizable**: By changing the base16 theme most programs will update to use that colorscheme. Config wise all programs are and can be configured via home manager in one place. 

## 🚀 Installation

1. Download and Install NixOS from the [official site](https://nixos.org/download).
2. Clone the repo, change your system hostname in flake.nix and configuration.nix
3. # Run 'nixos-rebuild --flake .#your-hostname'

## Structure 

- `flake.nix`: Entrypoint for hosts and home configurations. 
- `hosts`: NixOS Configurations, accessible via `nixos-rebuild --flake`.
  - `common`: Shared configurations imported into the machine specific configs.
    - `global`: Configurations that are globally applied to all my machines.
    - `optional`: Opt-in configurations my machines can use.
  - `angkor`: Personal Laptop - Asus ZenBook UX430U | Hyprland
  - `skadi`: TBD - Desktop PC - xx RAM, cpu, gpu | KDE?
  - `bastet`: TBD - Server
- `home`: My Home-manager configurations
  - `user`: The user the home manager is customizing, Ex. "carson"
	- `features`: "Features" (programs, configs) each hm configuration can import.
	- `global`: Configurations all home manager configs for that user will get
	- `"hostname".nix`: The home manager config for user@hostname. Ex. carson@angkor
	
- `custom`: Custom nix modules and nix files that modify or create packages. Could be shared or upstreamed, not personal configurations.
  - `modules`: Actual modules (with options) I haven't upstreamed yet.
  - `overlay`: Patches and version overrides for some packages.
  - `pkgs`: My custom packages. 



## ⌨️ Keybindings

### Main
TODO: Fill in my keybinds

| Key Combination      | Action                                            |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| ALT + R              | Resize windows mode                               |
| ALT + M              | Move windows mode                                 |
| SUPER + N, P         | Cycle window focus                                |
| SUPER + 1..0         | Change workspace                                  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + 1..0 | Move window to workspace                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + Q    | Kill active window                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + F    | Toggle floating window                            |
| SUPER + CTRL + F     | Toggle full-screen                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + O    | Toggle split                                      |
| SUPER + SHIFT + M    | Exit from hyprland                                |
| SUPER + T            | Launch wezTerm                                    |
| SUPER + D            | Launch rofi -drun                                 |
| SUPER + B            | Launch qutebrowser                                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + B    | Launch brave                                      |
| SUPER + F            | Launch thunar                                     |
| SUPER + ESCAPE       | Launch wlogout                                    |
| SUPER + SHIFT + L    | Swaylock                                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + S    | Take screenshot                                   |
| SUPER + E            | Launch swappy to edit last taken screenshot       |
| SUPER + R            | Record screen area (MP4)                          |
| SUPER + SHIFT + R    | Record screen area (GIF)                          |
| SUPER + C            | Color picker                                      |
| SUPER + V            | Launch clipboard menu (rofi -dmenu)               |
| SUPER + X            | Launch clipboard deletion item menu (rofi -dmenu) |
| SUPER + SHIFT + X    | Clear clipboard                                   |
| SUPER + U            | Launch bookmark menu (rofi -dmenu)                |
| SUPER + SHIFT + U    | Add text from clipboard to bookmark               |
| SUPER + CTRL + U     | Launch bookmark deletion item menu (rofi -dmenu)  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + A    | Toggle airplane mode                              |
| SUPER + SHIFT + N    | Toggle notifications                              |
| SUPER + SHIFT + Y    | Toggle bluetooth                                  |
| SUPER + SHIFT + W    | Toggle wifi                                       |
| SUPER + P            | Toggle play-pause player                          |
| SUPER + ]            | Player next track                                 |
| SUPER + [            | Player previous track                             |

All other keybindings are in `/home-manager/carson/features/hyprland/hyprland.nix` in the bind section. 
All system zsh scripts are located in the TBD directory.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the GPL3 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. 

# More

## Future Ideas

### Interesting

Things to look at.
- https://grahamc.com/blog/erase-your-darlings/

nix-on-droid
Clipboard-jh
avizo (macos like sound/brightness popup)


### For Visitors

These configurations are obviously meant for my personal use.

However, I try to structure it well and document options and my decisions extensively via comments (mainly for my own sake, so it's easily maintainable and I won't have to wonder why I did something in a particular way some time in the future.).

So, this project might be a useful resource if you're working on your own config, so feel free to look through it, copy whatever you want, steal whatever, anything that helps!

If you're just starting with NixOS, I'd suggest you look at <https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-starter-configs>.

### References

I used elements and inspiration from these resources. 

- https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-starter-configs
- https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-config/tree/main
- https://github.com/XNM1/linux-nixos-hyprland-config-dotfiles
